 # Percona Server for MySQL 8.4.0-1 (2024-08-)

Get started with [Quickstart Guide for Percona Server for MySQL].

[Percona Server for MySQL 8.4.0-1] includes all the features and bug fixes available in the
MySQL 8.4 Community Edition in addition to enterprise-grade features developed by Percona.

## Release highlights

Improvements and bug fixes introduced by Oracle for MySQL 8.3 and included in Percona Server for MySQL are the following:

* The MySQL native password has been deprecated and is no longer loaded by default. However, it can be loaded if needed.

* The clone plugin allows cloning between different point releases within the same series. You only must match the major and minor version numbers for cloning.

* GTIDs (Global Transaction Identifiers) can now handle groups of transactions, which helps speed up processing.

* `mysqldump` can now create output for older versions of MySQL.

* Automatic updates for histograms. When enabled, the histogram updates automatically whenever `ANALYZE TABLE` is run on the table. InnoDB's automatic recalculation of persistent statistics also updates the histogram when automatic updates are enabled.

* Adds a new privilege called FLUSH_PRIVILEGES. This privilege explicitly allows the use of FLUSH PRIVILEGES statements. Unlike the RELOAD privilege, FLUSH_PRIVILEGES only applies to FLUSH PRIVILEGES statements.

* The terms "MASTER" and "SLAVE" in replication commands are being replaced with "SOURCE" and "REPLICA". This change is part of an ongoing effort to use more inclusive language.

* Removed the the `mysqlpump` utility.

* Removed the `mysql_upgrade` utility.

* The default values for specific InnoDB server system variables have changed. See [What is new in MySQL 8.4 since 8.0](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.4/en/mysql-nutshell.html) for details.




## Useful links

* Install [Percona Server for MySQL 8.3]

* The [Percona Server for MySQL GitHub repository]

* Download product binaries, packages, and tarballs at [Percona Product Downloads]

* [Contribute to the documentation]

* For [training], contact [Percona Training - Start learning now]

[Quickstart Guide for Percona Server for MySQL]: ../quickstart-overview.md